Computers are such an integral part of our everyday life now that most people take it and its uses for granted. The advancement of computer has increased exponentially since the 1940s. There are five definable generations of computers:
1.First Generation(1940-1956)- Vacuum Tubes
2.Second Generation(1956-1963)-Transistors
3.Third Generation(1964-1971)-Integerated Circuits
4.Fourth Generation(1971-2010)-Microprocessors
5.Fifth Generation(2010-Present and beyond)-Artificial Intelligence
Each generation is defined by a significant technological development that changes fundamentally how computers operate – leading to more compact, less expensive, but more powerful, efficient and robust machines.

The vacuum tube was invented in 1906 by Lee De Frost, an electical engineer. During the first half of twentieth century, vaacuum tubes were the fundamental technology that was used to construct various electronic devices. The first generation computer systems also used vacuum tubes for circuitry and magnetic drums for memory. They were very large in size and would usually take entire room fit in . These computers were very expensive to operate and only large oragnizations could afford it. In addition to using a great deal of electricity, the first computers generated a lot of heat, which was often the cause of malfunctions. First generation computers relied on machine language, the lowest-level programming language understood by computers, to perform operations, and they could only solve one problem at a time. Input was based on punched cards and paper tape, and output was displayed on printouts. The ENIAC (Electronic Numerical Integrator and Computer), EDSAC (Electronic Delay Storage Automatic Calculator) and UNIVAC (UNIVersal Automatic Computer) computers are examples of first-generation computing devices. ENIAC was the first such computer. It was built in 1943 and used 18,000 vacuum tubes. It was almost 30.5 meters (100 feet) long and had twenty 10-digit registers for temporary calculations. It used punched cards for input and output and was programmed with plug board wiring. The ENIAC was able to compute at the rate of 1,900 additions per second. It was used primarily for war-related computations such as the construction of ballistic firing tables and calculations to aid in the building of the atomic bomb. The UNIVAC was designed by Eeckert and Mauchly. It used more than 5000 vacuum tubes and magnetic tape for bulk storage. The machine was used for doing tasks such as accounting and election prediction. UNIVAC was the first commercial computer delivered to a business client, the U.S. Census Bureau in 1951.

Even though the first generation computers were inefficient and bulky, they were the starting of the computer revolution and led to the invention of the devices that we largely use today.
